# Bigquery DB Connector Loader
## Overview

The BigQueryDbConnector Python class facilitates the dynamic creation of DAGs which read from BigQuery and write to 
another DB such as Postgres. The DAGs generated by this class consist of five distinct steps:

1. Start Step: An empty operator marking the beginning of the workflow.
2. PythonOperator: Executes a query on a specified BigQuery table, creating a temporary table with the query output.
3. PythonOperator: Executes creation of Airflow Connections.
4. PcfBigQueryToPostgresOperator: Transfers the contents of the temporary BigQuery table to a PostgreSQL table.
5. End Step: Another empty operator marking the end of the workflow.

## Getting Started
Before creating configuration files, follow these steps:

1. Ensure the necessary dependencies are setup:
    1. Postgres Table is Created.
    2. Postgres Connection is available in Airflow.

## Usage 
To use the BigQuery DB connector loader, configuration files will need to be provided with the following:

### Configuration Parameters

**Default args**
- Common default args required by other dags: owner, capability, severity, sub capability, business impact, and
  customer impact.

**Bigquery args**
- BigQuery related information:
   - **project_id**: Required  - BigQuery Project ID.
   - **dataset_id**: Required  - The dataset which the BigQuery source table resides.
   - **table_id**: Required  - The ID of the BigQuery table.
   - **query_file**: Required  - The path to the file containing the query to create the temporary table.
   - **batch_size**: Required  - The size of batches when reading from BigQuery table.

**Postgres args**
- Postgres related information:
   - **postgres_conn_id**: Required  - The Airflow connection ID providing PostgreSQL connection information.
   - **target_table_id**: Required  - The ID of the PostgreSQL table where data will be inserted.
   - **batch_size**: Required  - The size of batches when committing insert queries into the PostgreSQL table.
   - **update_fields**: Optional  - Fields to update when insert conflict occurs.
   - **conflict_fields**: Optional - Primary key fields which an insert conflict can occur on.

**Aiflow Connection Config**
- Airflow connection related information:
  - **conn_id** - The connection ID.
  - **conn_type** - The connection type.
  - **description** - The connection description.
  - **host** - The host.
  - **login** - The login.
  - **vault_password_secret_path** - The vault password secret path.
  - **vault_password_secret_key** - The vault password secret key.
  - **schema** - The DB schema.
  - **port** - The port number.

**Dag**
- Dag related information:
   - **read_pause_deploy_config** - whether to pause dag in any given environment.
   - **schedule_interval** - DAG schedule interval.
   
# Example Usage
The following is an example of configuration which can be provided within the 
`config/bigquery_db_connector_configs/bigquery_db_connector_config.yaml` file.

<pre>
```
bigquery_to_postgres_pco_data_transfer:
  default_args:
    owner: "team-convergence-alerts"
    capability: "Applications"
    severity: "P2"
    sub_capability: "Submission"
    business_impact: "POC - File DB Connector - No Business Impact"
    customer_impact: "POC - File DB Connector - No Customer Impact"
  bigquery:
    project_id: pcb-{env}-processing
    dataset_id: domain_loyalty
    table_id: PC_POINTS_AWARDED_{current_date}
    query_file: loyalty_processing/test.sql
    batch_size: 100000
  postgres:
    postgres_conn_id: points_comprehension_postgres_connection
    target_table_id: public.poc_points_comprehension
    batch_size: 10000
    update_fields: ["memberId", "pointEventId", "pcfCustomerIdCluster"]
    conflict_fields: ["TOPIC_PARTITION", "PARTITION_OFFSET", "STREAM_OFFSET"]
  airflow_connection_config:
    conn_id: points_comprehension_postgres_connection
    conn_type: postgres
    description: "Testing Postgres Airflow Connection Creation"
    host: pcbdvs-pg-qa.nonprod.pcfcloud.io
    login: campaigns_owner
    vault_password_secret_path: "/dev-secret/data/loyalty/points_comprehension"
    vault_password_secret_key: passphrase
    schema: campaigns
    port: 5432
  dag:
    read_pause_deploy_config: True
    schedule_interval: '0 0 * * 1-5'
```
</pre>

## Future Work
The following will be completed in the near future:
- ~~Registering Postgres connection in Airflow programmatically.~~ - Complete
- ~~Improving write performance of BigQueryToPostgresOperator.~~ - Complete

## Contributing
Contributions to the BigQuery DB Connector class are welcome.
If you find any issues or have suggestions for improvements, please submit a pull request or open an issue.

## Additional Info:
Feel free to customize the README file to include additional sections or any other relevant information.

Author: [Sharif Mansour]
